Add blogpost for hls-2.13.0.0 release announcement (#29)
haskell/blog.haskell.org: content/hls-2.13.0.0/index.md

+++
title = "Haskell Language Server 2.13.0.0 release"
date = 2026-01-26
[taxonomies]
authors = ["VeryMilkyJoe"]
categories = ["HLS"]
tags = ["Release"]
+++

The HLS team is happy to announce the 2.13.0.0 Haskell Language Server release which introduces two new exciting features!

<!-- more -->

## 2.13.0.0 features

#### Go-to type via hover message

This is a neat new feature, which adds clickable links to the different types in a type signature when hovering over it.
You can then jump directly to the type you want to explore further by directly clicking the link in the hover pop up.

Thank you very much to @dnikolovv for this contribution in [#4691](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-language-server/pull/4691)!
<img src="go-to-type.gif" alt="A demonstration of the go-to action jumping to the different possible types in a simple example." width=70%>

#### NumericUnderscores support for literals

We introduce additional code actions for better support of number literals, which offers to split the literal with underscores for better readability.

> The split is sensitive to the number system of the selected literal and to make life even more comfortable the code action also offers to add the NumbericUnderscores pragma for you if it is not already enabled!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The split is sensitive to the number system of the selected literal and to make life even more comfortable the code action also offers to add the [NumericUnderscores](https://ghc.gitlab.haskell.org/ghc/doc/users_guide/exts/numeric_underscores.html) pragma for you if it is not already enabled!
```

We want to thank @crtschin for implementing this feature in [#4716](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-language-server/pull/4716)

<img src="number-literal-ca.png" alt="An example showing a binary number literally and the potential code actions that can be requested." width=70%>

## 2.12.0.0 changes

Since we did not post about the rather chunky 2.12.0.0 HLS release, we also want to highlight some of the changes, bug fixes and even refactors that some haskellers might have missed.

### Features

#### Signature help

Another very cool new feature, implemented during 2025's Google Summer of Code by @jian-lin, is signature help.

When viewing an applied function, users can now request information on the type of the respective argument on hover.
This will also show users the comments related to the respective arguments if the function is sufficiently documented.
Even better, this feature also works on infix functions!

This feature was implemented in [#4626](https://github.com/haskell/haskell-language-server/pull/4626).

> <img src="signature-help.webm" alt="A simple 'Demo' type illustrating that the different parameters of a called function are highlighted in the function's type signature on hovering the respective passed arguments." width=70%>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<video controls width=70%>
  <source 
    src="signature-help.webm"
    type="video/webm"
    alt="A simple 'Demo' type illustrating that the different parameters of a called function are highlighted in the function's type signature on hovering the respective passed arguments." />
</video>

```

> Signature help is unfortunately currently bugged in do-notation statements and ready to be picked up by any interested Haskellers who want to contribute to making HLS even better 🙃.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Signature help is unfortunately currently buggy in do-notation statements and ready to be picked up by any interested Haskellers who want to help making HLS even better 🙃.
```
